[\#79 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79) `closed`: Items to discuss at LinuxTag 2012 meeting on 24/5 at 10am
========================================================================================================================

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) opened issue at [2012-05-20 23:23](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79):

Here is a preliminary list of items to discuss (sorted by priority):

-   State of Relax and Recover
    -   Feature development
    -   Contributor involvement
    -   Bug squashing
    -   Project governance
-   Moving to Github
    -   Get OBS working
    -   Redirect Subversion -&gt; Github
    -   Replace all references to Sourceforge
-   Moving the website
    -   Redirect website -&gt; Github Pages
    -   Replace all references to Sourceforge
-   Building automated test infrastructure \#38
    -   Required code changes to make this happen \#53 \#13 \#9
    -   Setting up configuration management to drive testing
    -   Setting up infrastructure for continuous testing
-   Discuss commercial support
-   Discuss remaining open "discuss" issues from:  
    [https://github.com/rear/rear/issues?\_=1336690245780&labels=discuss&page=2&state=open](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues?_=1336690245780&labels=discuss&page=2&state=open)

Feel free to add, clarify or reorder items inside this comment.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) commented at [2012-05-21 08:27](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79#issuecomment-5817591):

+1. The main question remains: Who has time for that...

On 21 May 2012 01:23, Dag WieÃ«rs &lt;  
<reply@reply.github.com>

> wrote:
>
> Here is a preliminary list of items to discuss (sorted by priority):
>
> -   Moving to Github
>     -   Get OBS working
>     -   Redirect Subversion -&gt; Github
>     -   Replace all references to Sourceforge
> -   Moving the website
>     -   Redirect website -&gt; Github Pages
>     -   Replace all references to Sourceforge
> -   Building automated test infrastructure \#38
>     -   Required code changes to make this happen \#53 \#13 \#9
>     -   Setting up configuration management to drive testing
>     -   Setting up infrastructure for continuous testing
> -   Discuss commercial support
> -   Discuss remaining open "discuss" issues from:
>
> [https://github.com/rear/rear/issues?\_=1336690245780&labels=discuss&page=2&state=open](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues?_=1336690245780&labels=discuss&page=2&state=open)
>
> Feel free to add, clarify or reorder items inside this comment.
>
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------
>
> Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub:  
> [https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-05-21 13:16](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79#issuecomment-5822081):

Since we are volunteers I expect few commitments initially, but if we
can define what we want to do and how we want to do it, it allows
outsiders to jump in. For a lot of the open issues I am confident we all
agree on the approach, but it couldn't hurt to verify each and add
detail to those items that may be unclear or where some issues are still
open.

I would like to use the issue-tracker to document the proceedings of the
meetings (per issue) so that new visitors can read everything in one
place.

Of course, if we can proceed quickly over the list of items there may be
more room for actual implementing some of the things we like to do...

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2012-05-22 07:21](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79#issuecomment-5840988):

I will add these topics to our workshop presentation

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-05-31 21:58](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/79#issuecomment-6048725):

We didn't actually have the time to discuss all these, but some have
been fixed in the meantime :-)

Thanks for all involved !

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
