[\#68 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68) `closed`: Option to specify the rear config file to use
============================================================================================================

**Labels**: `enhancement`, `discuss / RFC`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1576908?v=4" width="50">[pavoldomin](https://github.com/pavoldomin) opened issue at [2012-04-12 17:13](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68):

Assume, we want to automate rear backup with the different setup on
different days. E.g. ISO & tar.gz to URL on Mondays and OBDR on Fridays.
The possible method would be to have option, that tells rear, which
config files to use, like,

    rear -d /etc/rear.monday/ -v mkrescue 

would source local.conf (and other .conf) in */etc/rear.monday/*.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-04-12 19:39](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-5098949):

I would prefer a specific option like:

    rear -v -c /etc/rear/monday.conf mkrescue

Which is more in line with how other Unix tools work. But the
functionality looks interesting.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1576908?v=4" width="50">[pavoldomin](https://github.com/pavoldomin) commented at [2012-04-13 07:25](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-5109721):

How would we here handle another conf files rear sources - site.conf,
local.conf, rescue.conf, disklayout.conf.  
Also, when we do a recovery, it should proceed transparently, without
need to specify proper conf file, accordingly to initrd we booted from,
i.e. configuration dir would be copied as /etc/rear to initrd image

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-04-13 19:45](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-5123658):

There are various ways to do this. Currently we only discussed
functionality. It is quite likely we have to modify the current
implementation and how config files are handled in order to support this
functionality, so I don't want to go into the details of a (possible)
implementation and first discuss how it should work.

And you are right, the specified configuration should be used inside the
rescue image that is created. That is a functional requirement.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2012-06-01 18:03](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-6066667):

interesting idea, but not very practical in recovery mode I think. How
would we know which local\*.conf was used? To be honest I'm not in
favour of this proposal.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1576908?v=4" width="50">[pavoldomin](https://github.com/pavoldomin) commented at [2012-06-01 18:41](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-6067717):

The background for the proposal is to have recovery media 'highly
available'. In fact, we have several customers requesting such
functionality (and people work it around by hacking rear script or
writing wrappers). I do not see problem with selection of correct
local\_.conf file in recovery mode really: recovery image will only
handle /etc/rear/\_ with the actual conf files included at time of
mkrescue, assuming my '-d /path/to/rear\_conf\_dir' proposal:

Another possibility: rear would check, whether environment variable like
"REAR\_CONF\_DIR" is exported, and read the config from path it
specifies. Cron would than schedule jobs like
"REAR\_CONF\_DIR=/etc/rear.monday rear mbackup".

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-06-03 00:08](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-6081757):

Please let us not discuss the technical implementation now, but first
look at the requirements and use-cases. I don't want a discussion of a
technical implementation if we haven't fully looked into the merits of
such functionality. Since there are higher priority items on the plate,
I prefer if we pick this up later. And who knows, by that time other
functionality can be taken into account too.

(For example, we plan to make Rear usable without the need to install
it. Which could be a solution to your needs as well. But even if that's
not preferable for whatever reason, the reorganization might bring other
insights. So don't look at the technical implementation just yet for
now...)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1576908?v=4" width="50">[pavoldomin](https://github.com/pavoldomin) commented at [2012-06-06 07:51](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-6144962):

Sure, absolutely. Just consider my speculations here as low priority
feature request.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/783473?v=4" width="50">[jhoekx](https://github.com/jhoekx) commented at [2013-04-03 12:00](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-15832613):

This is implemented in 28bac7ad4e6ab67e4e955fec27fc3556082c896e and
working for me. More testing is welcome.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19934649?v=4" width="50">[spland30](https://github.com/spland30) commented at [2021-11-14 14:22](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-968300139):

Just an observation.

First, I believe the user was very clear on the requirement. They
outlined the need and then gave examples to further help explain the
requirement.

Second, If I were to design this... By **default**, Rear would always
use the config file imbedded in the rescue image. However, Rear should
also provide an option to override the default configuration by
specifying the config file at the command line. It shouldn't have been
that difficult to implement this change.

The other question is... where in the documentation does it say that the
config file is part of the recue image. I find that the rear
documentation is lacking in many areas, I spent weeks trying to get this
tool up and running because there was not adequate documentation. Users
should not have to read 1000's lines of code to fully understand how the
tools works. People don't have time to read code, or run any needless
trial buy error tests to understand it's functionality or why the tool
is not working as expected.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2021-11-15 08:57](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/68#issuecomment-968669428):

@spland30 Have a look at
[https://relax-and-recover.org/rear-user-guide/](https://relax-and-recover.org/rear-user-guide/)  
The @rear/contributors also like to have better documentation as you do,
but as usual lack of time is the main cause of running late (really
late). The ReaR User Guide sub-project is a attempt to improve this
situation. However, my time is limited and every hour I spend on it is
unpaid and *I am not an employee* so I hope you understand my
problem...  
There are solutions, but I leave it as an exercise for you to find out.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
