[\#5 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5) `closed`: Reorganize source structure
========================================================================================

**Labels**: `cleanup`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) opened issue at [2012-03-21 12:45](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5):

The current tree is based on a root file system. This has some
disadvantages as it makes it harder for contributors to understand the
structure. We would like to reorganize this so it's structured around
Rear's design.

The proposed structure would look like:

-   AUTHORS, ChangeLog, COPYING, README, TODO
-   bin/
-   conf/
-   contrib/
-   doc/
-   lib/
-   man/
-   skel/
-   stages/
-   workflows/

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2012-03-21 13:53](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5#issuecomment-4617606):

I don't mind, but I would postpone after a *stable* release. With stable
I mean well tested as we cannot foresee everything anyway...

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-03-21 14:35](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5#issuecomment-4618480):

Indeed, we haven't mapped any of these 'issues' to milestones, but this
one would be linked to the next milestone ;-)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-04-05 08:43](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5#issuecomment-4970673):

Moving this to the v1.14 timeframe because it affects automated testing
and the changes needed for that.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-06-12 15:29](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5#issuecomment-6273630):

Delaying this to v1.15 (or possibly later)...

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2013-11-15 10:58](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/5#issuecomment-28561439):

guess we will never come to this point - see no reason to keep this
issue open

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
