[\#161 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161) `closed`: Unattended recovery
====================================================================================

**Labels**: `enhancement`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1774205?u=6d26bd67a7ba64fb7bae93bbfe2151aaade0bdd2&v=4" width="50">[kkaiser](https://github.com/kkaiser) opened issue at [2012-09-20 09:49](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161):

I have a question concerning the recovery process. Is it possible to
fully automate the backup recovery? So that there are no questions
during the recovery no login etc. just an automated process with default
values as answer.

I know that is not the main design goal but it would be a nice way to
migrate or install many machines by just deploying the "golden client"
image.

If you need any further information don't hesitate to ask me.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2012-09-20 10:09](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161#issuecomment-8722407):

It is certainly something we have thought about before and I am not
against this at all.

The implementation for this would work through a kernel command line
option or a configuration variable that the init-scripts would intercept
to execute `rear recover` as the final step. The reason why this is not
a priority (for me at least) at this time is because we have a lot of
more important stuff to cover before this is nicely integrated.

**Side-note: The advantage of a kernel command line option is that one
can decide to add it during boot, even if the rescue image was not
prepared for it.**

There are various reasons why an (unattended) restore could stop at the
moment, and without having a prompt available or even the output on
screen (because it may be replaced by a login, or the output may be on a
different terminal) it will be more confusing to the person in charge of
doing a disaster recovery. So an unattended process makes more sense if
we offer menus and/or options to the user in (almost) all cases where
the process can stop unexpectedly.

We already added some (line-based) menus for the layout-code that can
help the person in charge during recovery, but there are currently too
many corner-case to make this work (for everyone). That said, there's
definitely room for an implementation that works in a controlled
environment like yours and we would accept a pull-request adding this
kind of functionality.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2012-11-23 13:10](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161#issuecomment-10659144):

During a recovery we do device migration (sometimes) that requires
manual input, or during cloning it may be need to manual edit the
restore script. So, for various reasons automating is not easy and
perhaps not desirable at this moment.  
For an instant recovery on the same hardware it could be feasible, but
even then when an error occurs it should offer a prompt. However, in an
**background recovery process** how would you know?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2013-07-03 11:48](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161#issuecomment-20410289):

is in fact already implemented by issue \#256 and will be part of
rear-1.15 (yet to be released)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/388198?u=0732dee3fe5002278cfbf40359ec431bdcf5f06c&v=4" width="50">[dagwieers](https://github.com/dagwieers) commented at [2013-07-11 23:47](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/161#issuecomment-20850377):

@kkaiser Could you please test this new functionality again ? Feel free
to reopen this issue in case there is a problem, or it doesn't do
exactly what you were expecting. Thanks for helping us out !

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
