[\#293 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293) `closed`: CentOS 6.4 - Rescue Boot Failed: VFS: Cannot open root device "(null)" or unknown-block(253,0)
===============================================================================================================================================================

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) opened issue at [2013-08-20 18:34](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293):

Using OUTPUT=ISO, BACKUP=RBME on CentOS 6.4 (up-to-date with epel and
remi repos) I am unable to boot from the recovery media (burned from the
iso dropped on the backup server) or from the grub-installed local
kernel/initrd stanza.

I tried adding root=/dev/ram0 to the kernel command line params and that
gets me a different error: No filesystem could mount root, tried:
iso9660

This is a group development server that is not yet in use (initial
testing and recovery verification only). I can mess with whatever
settings or reboot as needed. <s>Unfortunately I haven't been able to
get the serial output working from this server so I haven't been able to
read the entire kernel output during boot.</s> I was able to get the
serial output from the boot and there didn't appear to be any errors
until the panic.

Thanks in advance for any assistance.

root@iommi /var/log/rear\# rear -v -d -D mkbackup

    Relax-and-Recover 1.14-git201308130312 / 2013-08-13
    Using log file: /var/log/rear/rear-iommi.log
    Creating disk layout
    Creating root filesystem layout
    Copying files and directories
    Copying binaries and libraries
    Copying kernel modules
    Creating initramfs
    Making ISO image
    Wrote ISO image: /var/lib/rear/output/rear-iommi.iso (46M)
    Copying resulting files to nfs location
    You should also rm -Rf /tmp/rear.Ske6tMYxYmLfMaS

root@iommi /var/log/rear\# echo $?

    0

root@iommi /var/log/rear\# rear -v dump

    Relax-and-Recover 1.14-git201308130312 / 2013-08-13
    Using log file: /var/log/rear/rear-iommi.log.lockless
    Dumping out configuration and system information
    This is a 'Linux-x86_64' system, compatible with 'Linux-i386'.
    System definition:
                                        ARCH = Linux-i386
                                          OS = GNU/Linux
                            OS_MASTER_VENDOR = Fedora
                           OS_MASTER_VERSION = 6
                       OS_MASTER_VENDOR_ARCH = Fedora/i386
                    OS_MASTER_VENDOR_VERSION = Fedora/6
               OS_MASTER_VENDOR_VERSION_ARCH = Fedora/6/i386
                                   OS_VENDOR = CentOS
                                  OS_VERSION = 6.4
                              OS_VENDOR_ARCH = CentOS/i386
                           OS_VENDOR_VERSION = CentOS/6.4
                      OS_VENDOR_VERSION_ARCH = CentOS/6.4/i386
    Configuration tree:
                             Linux-i386.conf : OK
                              GNU/Linux.conf : OK
                                 Fedora.conf : missing/empty
                            Fedora/i386.conf : missing/empty
                               Fedora/6.conf : missing/empty
                          Fedora/6/i386.conf : missing/empty
                                 CentOS.conf : missing/empty
                            CentOS/i386.conf : missing/empty
                             CentOS/6.4.conf : missing/empty
                        CentOS/6.4/i386.conf : missing/empty
                                   site.conf : missing/empty
                                  local.conf : OK
    Backup with RBME
                                 RBME_BACKUP =
                               RBME_HOSTNAME = iommi
                      BACKUP_INTEGRITY_CHECK =
                             BACKUP_MOUNTCMD =
                              BACKUP_OPTIONS =
                        BACKUP_RSYNC_OPTIONS = --sparse --archive --hard-links --verbose --numeric-ids --stats
                      BACKUP_SELINUX_DISABLE = 1
                            BACKUP_UMOUNTCMD =
                                  BACKUP_URL = nfs://10.4.33.53/backup
    Output to ISO
                                     ISO_DIR = /var/lib/rear/output
                                   ISO_FILES =
                                  ISO_IMAGES =
                            ISO_ISOLINUX_BIN =
                                ISO_MAX_SIZE =
                             ISO_MKISOFS_BIN = /usr/bin/mkisofs
                                  ISO_PREFIX = rear-iommi
                                   ISO_VOLID = RELAXRECOVER
                               RESULT_MAILTO =

    /usr/share/rear/lib/validated/CentOS/6.4/i386.txt
    Your system is not yet validated. Please carefully check all functions
    and create a validation record with 'rear validate'. This will help others
    to know about the validation status of Relax-and-Recover on this system.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2013-08-24 08:59](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23205517):

Try `rear -v -d -D mkrescue`. In the temporary directory of (e.g.
`/tmp/rear.Ske6tMYxYmLfMaS`) you'll find the rootfs. Try the
`chroot`command (that's one). Secondly, check the `initrd.cgz` initial
ramdisk. Did you check the rear log file for errors?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) commented at [2013-08-24 13:30](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23208780):

I did examine the temp directory root fs and the generated image both by
unpacking and by using lsinitrd.

The logs didn't indicate anything to me when I looked.

I didn't try chrooting into it. I'll try that.

I am suspecting my kernel. I found options to enable small system
support. I built a new zImage with them on but haven't tested it yet.

I'll do that on Monday and rebuild, check the logs again, and try the
chroot.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) commented at [2013-08-26 13:36](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23262722):

I can chroot into the tmp rootfs but I couldn't use 'ls' and so I
checked and it is not even present. I noticed that it seems other files
are missing as well including '/init'. Compared to one of the working
"initramfs\*.img" under my '/boot', they have one under '/'. The one in
the rear rootfs is a broken symbolic link to 'bin/init'.

Using 'lsinitrd' on the generated 'initrd.cgz' file shows the same
things missing.

I haven't yet tested my kernel build with small system support but maybe
I don't need it if the rootfs is indeed missing files.

Checking the log, there were no error indications, but there were some
warnings that seem unrelated.

root@iommi /var/log/rear\# cat rear-iommi.log | grep -v "++" | grep -i
"warn"

    2013-08-20 14:22:05.437008832 WARNING: Could not collect user info for 'usbmux'
    2013-08-20 14:22:05.456126253 WARNING: Could not collect group info for 'group'
    2013-08-20 14:22:05.509526404 WARNING: Could not collect group info for 'ssh_keys'
    2013-08-20 14:22:05.523903066 WARNING: Could not collect group info for 'usbmux'
                    /^\t.+ => not found/ { print "WARNING: Dynamic library " $1 " not found" > "/dev/stderr" }
                    /^\t.+ => not found/ { print "WARNING: Dynamic library " $1 " not found" > "/dev/stderr" }
                    /^\t.+ => not found/ { print "WARNING: Dynamic library " $1 " not found" > "/dev/stderr" }
                    /^\t.+ => not found/ { print "WARNING: Dynamic library " $1 " not found" > "/dev/stderr" }
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.762668803 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/bin/raw' in etc/udev/rules.d/60-raw.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.767086669 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/bin/sleep' in etc/udev/rules.d/60-openct.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.770865876 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/etc/init.d/kdump' in etc/udev/rules.d/98-kexec.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.775793659 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/path/to/script' in lib/udev/rules.d/65-libsane.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.779422770 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/alsactl' in etc/udev/rules.d/90-alsa.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.782939268 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/crda' in lib/udev/rules.d/85-regulatory.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.786437092 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/hwclock' in lib/udev/rules.d/88-clock.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.790104033 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/mdadm' in lib/udev/rules.d/64-md-raid.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.793620740 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/mdadm' in lib/udev/rules.d/65-md-incremental.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.797111101 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/microcode_ctl' in lib/udev/rules.d/89-microcode.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.800625856 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/modprobe' in etc/udev/rules.d/60-pcmcia.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.804117221 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/modprobe' in lib/udev/rules.d/40-redhat.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.807620364 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/modprobe' in lib/udev/rules.d/80-drivers.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.811091263 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/modprobe' in lib/udev/rules.d/89-microcode.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.814590683 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/partx' in lib/udev/rules.d/40-multipath.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.818081880 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/sbin/setregdomain' in lib/udev/rules.d/85-regulatory.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.821603233 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/usr/bin/eject' in lib/udev/rules.d/61-mobile-action.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.825150125 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/usr/bin/setfacl' in lib/udev/rules.d/70-cups-libusb.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.828731952 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/usr/sbin/bluetoothd' in lib/udev/rules.d/97-bluetooth.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.832259329 WARNING: unmatched external call to '/usr/sbin/usbmuxd' in lib/udev/rules.d/85-usbmuxd.rules
    2013-08-20 14:22:15.835991144 WARNING: unmatched external call to 'check-mtp-device' in lib/udev/rules.d/40-libgphoto2.rules

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) commented at [2013-08-26 18:37](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23284928):

Enabling small systems support in the kernel did not do anything. It was
a shot in the dark but at least we know for sure.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) commented at [2013-08-26 19:10](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23287135):

After the test, I ran another `rear -v -d -D mkrescue` and am going over
the scripts. It looks like the
`/usr/share/rear/build/GNU/Linux/39_copy_binaries_libraries.sh` script
should be copying the files that are required. The log shows the
following line.

    2013-08-26 15:00:36.529312455 Binaries being copied: /bin/awk /bin/bash /bin/cpio /bin/dd /bin/df /bin/dumpkeys /bin/grep /bin/ipcalc /bin/kbd_mode /bin/loadkeys /bin/mv /bin/nano /bin/sort /bin/stty /bin/sync /bin/usleep /lib/udev/ata_id /lib/udev/cdrom_id /lib/udev/edd_id /lib/udev/path_id /lib/udev/usb_id /sbin/agetty /sbin/cryptsetup /sbin/dhclient /sbin/dmeventd /sbin/dmsetup /sbin/fsadm /sbin/grub-install /sbin/ip /sbin/kpartx /sbin/lvm /sbin/mingetty /sbin/mount.nfs /sbin/parted /sbin/pidof /sbin/scsi_id /sbin/sfdisk /sbin/udevadm /sbin/udevd /sbin/umount.nfs /usr/bin/diff /usr/bin/file /usr/bin/getopt /usr/bin/join /usr/bin/scp /usr/bin/sftp /us

This looks to be about what I get and I'm not seeing `init` or `ls` in
here.

I don't think they are printed from the conf but I see this debug in the
log:

    2013-08-26 15:00:27.043436308 Including conf/GNU/Linux.conf
    + . /usr/share/rear/conf/GNU/Linux.conf
    ++ PROGS=(${PROGS[@]} rpc.statd rpcbind bash mknod blkid vol_id udev_volume_id portmap readlink rpcinfo grep cat tac tr reboot halt shutdown killall5 killall chroot tee awk ip ifconfig nslookup route ifenslave ifrename nameif klogd syslog-ng syslogd rsyslogd echo cp date wc cut rm rmdir test init telinit ethtool expand sed mount umount insmod modprobe lsmod true false mingetty rmmod hostname uname sleep logger ps ln dirname basename mkdir tty ping netstat free traceroute less vi pico nano rmmod df ls dmesg du tar gzip netcat top iptraf joe pico getent id ldd strace rsync tail head find md5sum mkfs mkfs.ext2 mkfs.ext3 mkfs.ext4 mkfs.ext4dev mkfs.jfs mkfs.xfs mkfs.reiserfs mkfs.vfat mkfs.btrfs mkreiserfs fsck fsck.ext2 fsck.ext3 fsck.ext4 fsck.ext4dev fsck.xfs fsck.reiserfs reiserfsck fsck.btrfs btrfsck tune2fs tune4fs xfs_admin xfs_db btrfs jfs_tune reiserfstune expr egrep grep fgrep df chmod chown stat mkswap swapon swapoff mknod touch scsi_id lsscsi logd initctl lspci usleep mktemp /bin/true strace which mkfifo seq openvt poweroff chacl getfacl setfacl attr getfattr setfattr mpath_wait strings xargs)

This would suggest that `init` and `ls` should be included in what gets
copied. They must be getting excluded or they are not where they are
expected to be but it doesn't cause an error.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5272128?v=4" width="50">[MuninnAndHuginn](https://github.com/MuninnAndHuginn) commented at [2013-08-26 20:50](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/293#issuecomment-23293578):

I added a debug log to the end of each script that ran for my
configuration to print out the `PROGS` and `REQUIRED_PROGS` arrays. The
lists are correct until... you guessed it... my `local.conf` is read.

I tried to add a custom program to be included and I broke the `PROGS`
variable. Let that be a lesson to anyone else trying to do that.

Here is an example of what I did in the `local.conf` and how I corrected
the issue.

INCORRECT:

    PROGS=(
    myFavoriteApp
    )

CORRECT:

    PROGS=(
    "${PROGS[@]}"
    myFavoriteApp
    )

I didn't notice on my other server because I added this *after* I had
validated the configuration and never actually tested the new image.
I'll be re-doing all my images after this.

Marking this as solved.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
