[\#626 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626) `closed`: module scsi\_debug auto load at rhel 7.1
=========================================================================================================

**Labels**: `enhancement`, `support / question`, `fixed / solved / done`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9283275?v=4" width="50">[tbsky](https://github.com/tbsky) opened issue at [2015-07-25 08:58](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626):

hi:  
the situation comes with rhel 7.1 (or rhel 7.0 with recent updates).
rear will load "scsi\_debug" module automatically when restore. and that
module will create a 8MB /sev/sda. the restore procedure will have
trouble if the original system also have harddisk named /dev/sda.

I now use "EXCLUDE\_MODULES" to exclude it. but I think maybe we can
exclude it globally. I saw "scsi\_debug" module at thel 6.6 also, but
rear under rhel 6.6 won't auto load it, I don't know why rear under rhel
7.1 load it automatically.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2015-07-27 08:30](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-125125263):

I had this issue some time ago on a Suse Linux machine (I guess it was a
SLES11 system but I don't remember well).

But it happened only on one particular laptop that I used for a test. It
did not happen in general.

In gereral I noticed at that time that in the rear recovery system I had
more than 100 kernel modules loaded while in my original system I had
something about 40 kernel modules loaded.

From my point of view this indicates that there is something wrong in
general in the rear recovery system that it has much more kernel modules
loaded than in the original system - I guess it is something in udev
(nowadays included in systemd).

My generic workaround is the following (that helped me in the past for
any kind of wrong kernel modules in the rear recovery system) in
/etc/rear/local.conf:

<pre>
# Have all modules of the original system also in the recovery system
# using the output of lsmod | tail -n +2 | cut -d ' ' -f 1 | tac | tr -s '[:space:]' ' '
MODULES_LOAD=( ... )
</pre>

I.e. I run in the original system

<pre>
lsmod | tail -n +2 | cut -d ' ' -f 1 | tac | tr -s '[:space:]' ' '
</pre>

and have that output as value for MODULES\_LOAD

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9283275?v=4" width="50">[tbsky](https://github.com/tbsky) commented at [2015-07-27 09:03](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-125135692):

hi jsmeix:

thanks for your hint! yes it is something related to systemd-udev. I
don't mind if there are many modules loaded when recovery. but this
module prevent the recovery process.

I saw commit which may fix the systemd-udev problem. this issue maybe
fixed also. I prefer my recovery media to have many modules in case I
need to restore the system in different hardware..

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2015-07-27 09:41](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-125147604):

I feel at least a bit usafe when the recovery system has different
kernel modules loaded than the original system.

Perhaps for "normal recovery cases" it could be a safe default to load
only those kernel modules that have been loaded in the original system?

With "normal recovery case" I mean that the hardware where recovery
happens is fully compatible with the hardware of the original system.

With "fully compatible hardware" I mean that same kernel modules will
work (e.g. one cannot have a replacement NIC in the recovery hardware
that needs a different kernel module).

Obviously this restricts on what hardware recovery can work but on the
other hand it could make recovery on fully compatible hardware work more
reliably.

I assume the basic question is what the default use-case is for rear.

Recovery on same or fully compatible replacement hardware or recovery on
"sufficiently similar" replacement hardware?

In the latter case one would need to define what "sufficiently similar"
actually means.

For example replacing a single harddisk with another single harddisk
with at least the original size could be sufficiently similar but
replacing one traditional spinning 1TB harddisk with two SSDs where each
SSD has 600GB is probably not sufficiently similar.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2015-08-10 14:54](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-129481139):

According
[http://sg.danny.cz/sg/sdebug26.html](http://sg.danny.cz/sg/sdebug26.html)
it seems safe to exclude the scsi\_debug module in recovery mode.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2015-11-04 09:29](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-153654859):

@tbsky Could you see what the effect is of the new script?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9283275?v=4" width="50">[tbsky](https://github.com/tbsky) commented at [2015-11-04 09:53](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/626#issuecomment-153664454):

hi:  
the scripts seems try to unload scsi\_debug if it is loaded? I have not
test it, but it seems too late to unload unless the script can unload
the module before loading real harddisk.

since the major problem of this module is it will occupy /dev/sda, so
the real harddisk will become /dev/sdb. even the module is unloaded, I
think the real harddisk will still remain /dev/sdb.

I now just exclude the module so it won't copy to recovery image hence
it has no chance to load..

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
