[\#696 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696) `closed`: Dependency to isolinux missing in Debian 8 package
===================================================================================================================

**Labels**: `enhancement`, `support / question`, `fixed / solved / done`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3491238?v=4" width="50">[aussendorf](https://github.com/aussendorf) opened issue at [2015-11-13 11:37](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696):

With Debian 8 the isolinux.bin is not part of the syslinux package
anymore.  
Instead you need to explicitly install the isolinux package, before
'rear mkrescue' can succeed.  
Solution would be to add a dependency on isolinux package for Debian
&gt;= 8.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2015-11-17 13:49](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157374671):

If I'm not mistaken rear will complain when you try to run mkrescue, no?
That happens during the prep phase.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3491238?v=4" width="50">[aussendorf](https://github.com/aussendorf) commented at [2015-11-17 14:11](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157380306):

Right

     /usr/sbin/rear mkrescue
    ERROR: Could not find 'isolinux.bin'. Maybe you have to set ISO_ISOLINUX_BIN [] or install the syslinux package ?
    Aborting due to an error, check /var/log/rear/rear-ci-Debian-8-0-64-5e6e44a85af2ab3b.log for details

I've solved this with manually installing isolinux  
`apt-get install -y --force-yes bareos-client rear isolinux`

If you define a dependency on isolinux in rear for Debian 8, this gets
resolved by the package manager.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) commented at [2015-11-17 15:00](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157394466):

@aussendorf, what is - in your opinion - the **default** feature set of
ReaR that should be covered by package dependencies?

ReaR has a lot of very different options how to use it. Each leads to
completely different package dependencies. We had already a lot of
discussions (e.g. \#369, \#468, \#661, \#348, \#250, \#247, \#187,
\#133, \#122, \#78 and probably more that I did not find now).

Bottom line is that over the last years we reduced the dependency
"footprint" of ReaR to support users who want to have a light-weight
install.

The basic conflict is between "I want to have a working solution
out-of-the-box" vs. "ReaR should not be bloatware, I don't need all the
stuff it pulled int".

IMHO the solution to that conflict will be an agreement on the default
use case that we support out-of-the-box.

Meanwhile my recommendation would be to create a "wrapper" package that
brings *your* default configutation (in `/etc/rear/site.conf`) and
depends on the rear package and also the neccessary dependencies for
that configuration. If for example you have 100 servers where you use
ReaR with Bareos then you can simplify the configuration *and* the
deployment of those servers. If some servers have a different
configuration you can still put that into `/etc/rear/local.conf`.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3491238?v=4" width="50">[aussendorf](https://github.com/aussendorf) commented at [2015-11-18 11:01](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157679439):

@schlomo  
I always thought, that creating ISO images for BMR was the key-feature
of REAR.

I've started to integrate Rear into our fully automated CI tests for
Bareos. That way I realized that for Debian8 I have to manually add the
isolinux package, while on the other tested distributions isolinux.bin
came onto the systems through rear's dependencies.

That made me think, the absence of isolinux.bin on Debian 8 was not
intended.

Anyway, now it's at least documented. If you decide to have minimized
dependencies without isolinux.bin; I am fine with that, I've already
added the workaround to our CI scripts (see above).

We will build own Rear-Packages for Bareos, that we have (automatically)
tested and that we support and we will provide all necessary patches on
GITHub, hoping that we can stay as close as possible to the upstream
repository.

Just one other thought: If you want to have minimized rear packages but
see different usecases: why not split up rear into several packages like
rear-common, rear-isolinux, rear-pxe, rear-whatever. That way you could
really achieve use-case-optimized and minimal rear-installations.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2015-11-18 12:44](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157701093):

@aussendorf for the rpm spec file we made some architectural if-clauses
of packages which are necessary. If you can do the same for debian
packaging then I'm fine with it. I'm not a debian packaging expert.
Another point is the automated creation of a `/etc/rear/os.conf` for
debian related systems. That is not yet implemented either.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2015-11-18 16:05](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157760940):

Only a side note regarding "why not split up rear into several
packages":

@aussendorf  
just do it for Debian as a first step so that then as a subsequent step
also other Linux distributions could do it based on your work - of
course only if you really like to deal with that kind of issues ;-)

Seriously:  
In general I think rear should have minimal package requirements (which
basically means only bash and very basic system tools are really
needed). Anything else should be tested as needed during runtime with
meaningful error messages when something is missing.

rear is not meant as an end-user application that "just works",  
see in particular "Inappropriate expectations" at  
[https://en.opensuse.org/SDB:Disaster\_Recovery](https://en.opensuse.org/SDB:Disaster_Recovery)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) commented at [2015-11-18 21:42](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-157874039):

@aussendorf see
[https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/250\#issuecomment-19624414](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/250#issuecomment-19624414)
for one of my many attempts, so far nobody else thought it worthwhile
and I lack the time :-(

Thinking again about your arguments I now have the following opinion:

-   Yes, ISO is our default (ATM) even if it is not the "primary" use
    case. It follows that isolinux should be part of the ReaR package
    requirements, at least till we come up with a better policy. *Can
    you suggest a patch for the Debian control file that will also work
    on older versions of Debian/Ubuntu?*
-   I also believe that ISO is not such a bad choice because it nicely
    wraps everything into a single bootable file that can be
    -   burned to optical media
    -   written to USB storage
    -   easily attached to a VM or a hardware KVM solution like DRAC or
        iLO
    -   handled also on Mac and Windows which I see positive as many
        admins don't run Linux on their desktops
-   As much as I love subpackages for different use cases, I also accept
    the notion that maybe most of our users won't really benefit from
    that since they do not live in a fully packaged environment

@jsmeix I disagree. With just a few config lines ReaR is a standalone DR
solution that will create a bootable USB disk which you can use to
recover a server or a desktop. We just never bothered to market it like
that or to change the default config to be more desktop friendly. Maybe
with the discussion in \#698 (if it ever happens) we will come up with a
better plan than what we have now.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3491238?v=4" width="50">[aussendorf](https://github.com/aussendorf) commented at [2015-11-19 15:20](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-158087333):

@gdha Ok, we will have a look at the debian8 packaging, version
dependent packages dependencies can be accomplished with OBS. We are now
busy with our Bareos 15.2 release but after that I'll spend some time.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3810660?v=4" width="50">[roseswe](https://github.com/roseswe) commented at [2016-06-11 14:49](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-225367175):

Debian 8.2

rear mkbackup
=============

ERROR: Could not find 'isolinux.bin'. Maybe you have to set
ISO\_ISOLINUX\_BIN \[\] .......

aptitude install isolinux
=========================

Then it works. So please add isolinux as a dependency!

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2016-08-15 14:54](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/696#issuecomment-239823106):

With
[https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/962](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/962)
merged  
I consider this issue as fixed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
