[\#1805 PR](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/1805) `merged`: Verify if dm-X is a partition before adding to sysfs\_paths
=========================================================================================================================

**Labels**: `bug`, `fixed / solved / done`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19491077?u=0021b16ab426902cbe676f6831f41607bbe4d441&v=4" width="50">[schabrolles](https://github.com/schabrolles) opened issue at [2018-05-14 19:57](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/1805):

#### Relax-and-Recover (ReaR) Pull Request Template

Please fill in the following items before submitting a new pull request:

##### Pull Request Details:

-   Type: **Bug Fix**

-   Impact: **Normal**

-   Reference to related issue (URL):  
    [https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/1767](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/1767)

-   How was this pull request tested?  
    tested with rhel6, rhel7, ubunut16.04, sles12sp2, sles11sp4 on POWER

-   Brief description of the changes in this pull request:  
    The changes brought by \#1802 doesn't work when a full disk without
    partition is used as LVM physical volume. In that special case, the
    `holders` doesn't contain list of dm devices pointing to disk
    partitions, but a list of dm devices pointing to LVM logical
    volumes.  
    This PR verify that the type of dm is a partition (by checking if
    the dm uuid starts with "part\*") before adding it to the
    `sysfs_path` array.

The UUID name starting with `part` is verified with rhel6, rhel7,
sles11, sles12, ubuntu.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19491077?u=0021b16ab426902cbe676f6831f41607bbe4d441&v=4" width="50">[schabrolles](https://github.com/schabrolles) commented at [2018-05-16 09:36](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/1805#issuecomment-389458272):

As written in
[https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/1767\#issuecomment-389230237](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/1767#issuecomment-389230237),
it seems this patch and \#1802 solves \#1767 issue.  
I would like to merge it soon if possible.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19491077?u=0021b16ab426902cbe676f6831f41607bbe4d441&v=4" width="50">[schabrolles](https://github.com/schabrolles) commented at [2018-05-17 05:19](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/1805#issuecomment-389747622):

@jsmeix  
Do you want to have a look at this one before I merge it ?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
