[\#2119 PR](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119) `merged`: btrfs subvolumes generic: fix 'subvolume set-default' for older versions
======================================================================================================================================

**Labels**: `fixed / solved / done`, `minor bug`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) opened issue at [2019-04-16 10:44](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119):

##### Pull Request Details:

-   Type: **Bug Fix**

-   Impact: **Normal**

-   Reference to related issue (URL):
    [https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2080\#issuecomment-472448686](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2080#issuecomment-472448686)

-   How was this pull request tested? On Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2019-04-16 10:49](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-483610197):

@jsmeix Hopefully, this fix makes the generic code work on SLES12 now -
and on the entire universe ;-).

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2019-04-26 08:54](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-486981852):

Not urgent or "must have" for ReaR 2.5 so postponed to ReaR 2.6

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2019-05-01 13:53](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488288078):

I'd like you to reconsider including this PR into ReaR 2.5, too, for
these reasons:

1.  The entire script `135_include_btrfs_subvolumes_generic_code.sh` is
    not enabled by default, but depends on the yet undocumented variable
    `BTRFS_SUBVOLUME_GENERIC_SETUP`.
2.  It is a tiny change, which has been successfully tested in several
    mkrescue/recover cycles while checking that a default subvolume (and
    thus the changed code) was actually used.
3.  If people want to try the new code in its packaged form, they should
    have a positive experience on first use, even on older OS versions.

Of course, after releasing ReaR 2.5, the entire code should still be
tested on a wider range of systems (including the ancient ones). The
design goal remains to have just one copy of btrfs subvolume handling
code.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2019-05-02 08:41](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488593331):

@OliverO2  
of course I agree with your  
[https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119\#issuecomment-488288078](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488288078)

I only liked to test it also on SLES out of curiosity  
but found no time yet...

Because SLES uses totally separated different code  
this changes cannot cause regressions on SLES  
so that I can "blindly approve" them for SLES.

@gdha  
should we have that in ReaR 2.5?  
From my current selfish SLES-only point of view I would say yes.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/888633?u=cdaeb31efcc0048d3619651aa18dd4b76e636b21&v=4" width="50">[gdha](https://github.com/gdha) commented at [2019-05-02 10:51](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488629392):

@jsmeix release 2.5 is fine for me.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2019-05-02 11:00](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488631323):

Thanks to both of you!

@jsmeix
[https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119\#issuecomment-488593331](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2119#issuecomment-488593331)

> I only liked to test it also on SLES out of curiosity  
> but found no time yet...

Sure, and I also understand that you'd like to get the release done.
Would you like me to add an issue for the integration testing so that
there some reminder after this PR is merged?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
