[\#2697 PR](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697) `merged`: more control over serial devices used
===================================================================================================

**Labels**: `enhancement`, `fixed / solved / done`,
`hacktoberfest-accepted`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3344302?v=4" width="50">[DEvil0000](https://github.com/DEvil0000) opened issue at [2021-10-15 13:31](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697):

-   Type: **Bug Fix** / **Enhancement**

-   Impact: **Normal**

-   Reference to related issue (URL): \#2663 ( \#2648 )

-   How was this pull request tested: the basic options for serial on a
    APU2

-   Brief description of the changes in this pull request:

-   added SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICES to name a list of devices instead of
    using all found ones

-   added SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICE\_GRUB to use a specific one for grub
    instead of the first one

-   moved some potentially reusable parts in lib/serial-functions.sh

-   fixed a ubuntu 20.04/systemd issue if ttyS0 and tty0 was given to
    the kernel (tty0 was added by mistake in some cases)

Please add hacktoberfest topic to teh repo or hacktoberfest-accepted
label to the PR if you are willing to merge ;)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-18 10:06](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945611502):

@DEvil0000  
thank you for your enhancement!  
I will have a look at your changes soon...

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-18 13:02](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945743487):

@DEvil0000  
I see that most of the issues I have with the code  
in this pull request are inherited from our old code  
and I do not like it when you need to fix our old code issues  
so if you like to fix them I would much appreciate it  
but I could as well just merge this pull request as is  
because to me it looks as what it implements is OK  
only how it is implemented looks not well to me and then  
afterwards I could make the code look well to me.

Simply put:  
Would you like to make the code look well  
or should I merge it and then I make the code look well?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3344302?v=4" width="50">[DEvil0000](https://github.com/DEvil0000) commented at [2021-10-18 13:15](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945756151):

I fixed the obvois things a typos.  
The config singular this is on purpose - see comment.  
The cmdline concat is something I am not sure if a missing speed return
would mean the device can not get used.  
The other change request would cause changes all over the code base
which I consider out of scope for this PR.

Please consider adding the hacktoberfest topic to the repo or
hacktoberfest-accepted label to the PR ;)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-18 13:16](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945756351):

@DEvil0000  
just adapt your current code in this pull request as you like  
and tell me when you are finished with that.  
Then I will "just merge" it and do the more generic cleanup  
regarding our old serial console code on my own.

I will need to sleep on it whether or not the config variables  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICE\_SYSLINUX and  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICE\_GRUB should be singular  
because we cannot change config variable names with reasonable effort  
so if some future GRUB or GRUB on other hardware works with  
more than one console device we could not change  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICE\_GRUB to  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICES\_GRUB  
(we would need additional fallback code for the old name).  
So currently I think I would more prefer to have variable names like  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICES\_SYSLINUX and  
SERIAL\_CONSOLE\_DEVICES\_GRUB plus matching code  
and have a comment in default.conf that usually only one  
single serial console device is known to work in practice.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-18 13:20](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945760298):

@DEvil0000  
I don'k now about hacktoberfest (likely I am just too busy to have
noticed it)  
so what do I need to do to add the hacktoberfest topic to the repo  
or add a hacktoberfest-accepted label to the PR?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3344302?v=4" width="50">[DEvil0000](https://github.com/DEvil0000) commented at [2021-10-18 13:31](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-945771409):

The topic on the repo may 'invite' people looking/searching for open
issues in hacktober to fix something and create a PR. They however
expect responses in reasonable time so they get the merch/t-shirt at the
end. The label at a specific PR does also make it count for
hacktoberfest but does not attract random people to fix/improve things.

I don't think more then one serial device will ever work okay in any
bootloader with all hardware. So I consider the PR ready to merge ;)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-19 08:35](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-946487496):

@DEvil0000  
thank you for your enhancement of ReaR!

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3344302?v=4" width="50">[DEvil0000](https://github.com/DEvil0000) commented at [2021-10-19 08:47](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-946496708):

@jsmeix how about adding the label "hacktoberfest-accepted" so this PR
will count ;)  
see here
[https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/faq](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/faq)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-19 12:01](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-946651760):

Puhh - was simple as soon as one knows what one has to do.  
But for beginners the documentation about hacktoberfest  
is as confusing as our ReaR documentation is...

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3344302?v=4" width="50">[DEvil0000](https://github.com/DEvil0000) commented at [2021-10-19 12:08](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-946656518):

thanks ;)  
you may in addition still add the topic "hacktoberfest" to the repo so
someone looking for open issues will find the repo over the search as a
PR invitation basically:
[https://github.com/topics/hacktoberfest](https://github.com/topics/hacktoberfest)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-10-19 12:39](https://github.com/rear/rear/pull/2697#issuecomment-946680495):

Phew!  
Was again simple as soon as one knows what one has to do.  
For now I added only `hacktoberfest2021 ` (yes, the trailing space is
needed)  
Let's see what happens - hell breaks lose or hell freezes or something
less scaring ;-)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
