[\#2606 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606) `closed`: Remote unlock SED via PBA
============================================================================================

**Labels**: `support / question`, `fixed / solved / done`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2871973?v=4" width="50">[Jip-Hop](https://github.com/Jip-Hop) opened issue at [2021-04-27 19:30](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606):

In addition tot the current unlock feature, I'd like to be able to
unlock the SED over the network via the PBA in case I don't have a
keyboard (and monitor) attached to my home server. This would also allow
me to unlock the SED and boot the server if I'm not at home if I use a
VPN.

For this reason I'm trying to re-enable networking in the PBA. I've set
these to yes:

[https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/prep/OPALPBA/Linux-i386/001\_configure\_workflow.sh\#L28-L31](https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/prep/OPALPBA/Linux-i386/001_configure_workflow.sh#L28-L31)

And commented this line:  
[https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/build/OPALPBA/Linux-i386/095\_exclude\_non\_essential\_files.sh\#L20](https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/build/OPALPBA/Linux-i386/095_exclude_non_essential_files.sh#L20)

When I boot from the PBA I drop to an emergency shell but I'm unable to
ping anything. If I check ifconfig then there's only the lo network (no
eth). What are the additional steps I should take to re-enable
networking in the PBA?

If I can re-enable networking I'd try to remotely unlock using SSH. But
ultimately I'd make a small HTTPS server with Python which would ask for
the password and call sedutil-cli to unlock the disk.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2021-04-27 20:20](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-827903398):

For a (hopefully) complete list of files making PBA support possible,
use:

    find usr -iname \*opal\* -exec find '{}' -print \;

You might want to look at
`usr/share/rear/skel/default/etc/scripts/unlock-opal-disks` which
choreographs the final PBA boot stage and deals with final
initialization, password entry and unlocking. It is called via
`usr/share/rear/skel/OPALPBA/etc/inittab` or
`usr/share/rear/skel/default/usr/lib/systemd/system/sysinit-opalpba.service`
(depending on whether you are using `init` or `systemd`).

In the PBA, networking, `sshd` and stuff are intentionally left out to
keep it small, simple and secure. Python is generally not available on a
rescue system or PBA. Keep in mind the size limit for a PBA.

Note that all of this is well beyond scope for the current PBA
implementation, so you're pretty much on open waters. Currently, remote
unlocking requires firmware-level remote control capabilities (e.g. via
IPMI oder AMT). Hope this helps anyway. Good luck!

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2871973?v=4" width="50">[Jip-Hop](https://github.com/Jip-Hop) commented at [2021-04-28 06:46](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-828192082):

Thanks for replying so quickly :)

My home server doesn't have IPMI and I'd prefer not to add it just for
unlocking the PBA since it would constantly consume power.

I manually made a PBA image containing everything I need (including
sedutil-cli, Python and networking) based on Tiny Core Linux. I still
had room to spare, so I'm not worried about the PBA size limit.

I understand why networking is currently not available in the PBA image.
Networking works in the rear rescue image though. I'm trying to discover
why it works in the rescue image, and not in the PBA, so I can reenable
it. Do you have another clue?

The rear workflow to generate a PBA image is super convenient! So I was
hoping to build on top of it.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2021-04-28 11:24](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-828376103):

Unfortunately, I cannot point specifically to what you might be missing.
As far as I remember, stripping down ReaR to meet PBA requirements was a
complex multi-step process with a considerable amount of trial and error
involved.

Your initial approach is on the right trajectory. However, rather than
changing settings to different values, just comment out the lines you
think might exclude stuff you need. For example, in
`001_configure_workflow.sh` do not set `USE_DHCLIENT='yes'`, but make
that line `# USE_DHCLIENT='no'`. The reason is that there are
auto-detection and auto-configuration options in place which adapt to
different installations and operating systems. See
`usr/share/rear/conf/default.conf` for explanations.

So I'd go further down that route of initially commenting out everything
that looks like a strip-down setting in `001_configure_workflow.sh`,
`095_exclude_non_essential_files.sh`, including `COPY_AS_IS_EXCLUDE`
lines (you might miss important configuration files otherwise). Also
consider the hints mentioned in my previous comment. Then you could
enable the debug shell via `OPAL_PBA_DEBUG_PASSWORD` (as explained in
`usr/share/rear/conf/default.conf`), boot the image via a USB stick and
check what's available.

Note that much depends on your base operating system and its
configuration. ReaR images are generally way different from Tiny Core as
the former can vary wildly depending on which OS they were created with.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2871973?v=4" width="50">[Jip-Hop](https://github.com/Jip-Hop) commented at [2021-05-14 18:17](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-841418760):

Thanks again for replying. I went the Tiny Core Linux road after all for
my [PBA](https://github.com/Jip-Hop/sedunlocksrv-pba), but did borrow
the rear SED unlock code from
[opal-functions.sh](https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/lib/opal-functions.sh)
and
[unlock-opal-disks](https://github.com/rear/rear/blob/6a3d0b4d5e73c69a62ce0bd209b2b38ffb462569/usr/share/rear/skel/default/etc/scripts/unlock-opal-disks).
I hope you don't mind ðŸ™‚

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4660803?v=4" width="50">[OliverO2](https://github.com/OliverO2) commented at [2021-05-14 19:04](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-841444509):

You're welcome! If it works best for you that way, it's perfectly fine.
As ReaR code is GPL-licensed, who could object? ðŸ˜ƒ

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1788608?u=925fc54e2ce01551392622446ece427f51e2f0ce&v=4" width="50">[jsmeix](https://github.com/jsmeix) commented at [2021-05-17 13:31](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/2606#issuecomment-842327239):

@Jip-Hop  
feel free to 'borrow' ReaR code as you like under GPL license  
and ideally you may even bring something back to ReaR at a later time  
if you have adaptions and enhancements that could also improve ReaR :-)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
