[\#3026 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026) `closed`: Rsync backup method with backup url on a Windows server
==========================================================================================================================

**Labels**: `support / question`, `no-issue-activity`, `old version`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/132502509?v=4" width="50">[milleld1](https://github.com/milleld1) opened issue at [2023-07-15 23:22](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026):

-   ReaR version ("/usr/sbin/rear -V"): 2.4

-   If your ReaR version is not the current version, explain why you
    can't upgrade: The system has to use RHEL 7, and ReaR version 2.4 is
    the most recent version available for it.

-   OS version ("cat /etc/os-release" or "lsb\_release -a" or "cat
    /etc/rear/os.conf"): RHEL 7.9

-   ReaR configuration files ("cat /etc/rear/site.conf" and/or "cat
    /etc/rear/local.conf"): see attached

-   Hardware vendor/product (PC or PowerNV BareMetal or ARM) or VM (KVM
    guest or PowerVM LPAR): Unknown

-   System architecture (x86 compatible or PPC64/PPC64LE or what exact
    ARM device): Unknown

-   Firmware (BIOS or UEFI or Open Firmware) and bootloader (GRUB or
    ELILO or Petitboot): Unknown

-   Storage (local disk or SSD) and/or SAN (FC or iSCSI or FCoE) and/or
    multipath (DM or NVMe): Unknown

-   Storage layout ("lsblk -ipo
    NAME,KNAME,PKNAME,TRAN,TYPE,FSTYPE,LABEL,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT"): N/A

-   Description of the issue (ideally so that others can reproduce it):

**Is there any known configuration to send backup files to a location on
a Windows server?**

I'm trying to send my backups via rsync to a location on another server
running Windows. Cygwin has been set up for a long time and has worked
normally. I have a nearly identical system using two linux servers
instead of a linux server and windows server where the rsync method
works perfectly. When I try to make a backup of the RHEL server onto
Windows, it looks like most or all of the data I expected to be sent
arrives safely, but I get a lot of errors in the rear log similar to
these:

    cp: cannot stat '/usr/share/microcode_ctl/ucode_with_caveats/intel/intel-ucode/06-86-04': No such file or directory

and

    rsync: [generator] recv_generator: mkdir "/backup/thehostname/backup/etc/systemd/system/dev-virtio\x2dports-org.qemu.guest_agent.0.device.wants" failed: No such file or directory (2)
    rsync: [generator] stat "/backup/thehostname/backup/usr/share/terminfo/A/Apple_Terminal" failed: No such file or directory (2)

I notice that these directories contain backslashes and underscores.
Could there be some trouble with differences between Linux and Windows
naming requirements? **If Cygwin isn't handling these gracefully on its
own, what can be done?**

and

    rsync: [receiver] mkstemp "/backup/thehostname/backup/opt/importantprogram/old/2017-01-12-235855/perl5.14.2/lib/5.14.2/Pod/Perldoc/.ModuleOne.pm" failed: No such file or directory (2)
    rsync: [receiver] mkstemp "/backup/thehostname/backup/opt/importantprogram/old/2017-01-12-235855/perl5.14.2/lib/5.14.2/Pod/Perldoc/.ModuleTwo.pm" failed: No such file or directory (2)

My coworker notes that Cygwin doesn't have mkstemp, but uses a similar
one called mktemp. **Is there a known solution for backing up files to a
Windows server?**

-   Workaround, if any:

My coworker created a symbolic link to make calling mkstemp call mktemp
instead. This worked in a manual test of rsync, but when rear runs, it
isn't using that link. The error messages remain, showing that
internally, rsync is calling mkstemp and this call is not changed to
mktemp.

-   Attachments, as applicable  
    [local.txt](https://github.com/rear/rear/files/12062993/local.txt)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26300485?u=9105d243bc9f7ade463a3e52e8dd13fa67837158&v=4" width="50">[pcahyna](https://github.com/pcahyna) commented at [2023-07-17 13:42](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026#issuecomment-1638172946):

I suggest that you test rsync alone (without ReaR) to back up your
filesystem first and only when you have that working, integrate it with
ReaR. Regarding Cygwin, I have no idea unfortunately.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26300485?u=9105d243bc9f7ade463a3e52e8dd13fa67837158&v=4" width="50">[pcahyna](https://github.com/pcahyna) commented at [2023-07-17 13:46](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026#issuecomment-1638181945):

> My coworker created a symbolic link to make calling mkstemp call
> mktemp instead.

What does this mean? How do you make calling mkstemp call mktemp? (They
are C functions from libc.)

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/132502509?v=4" width="50">[milleld1](https://github.com/milleld1) commented at [2023-07-28 00:12](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026#issuecomment-1654786141):

Regarding mkstemp and mktemp,

we found manpages for these and saw they are very similar, and thought
they might be interchangable, and made a symbolic link so that whenever
mkstemp is called, mktemp is called instead. However, we were mistaken
in thinking that this would accomplish anything. mkstemp is a system
call, so setting this symlink did nothing of significance.

Regarding making rsync work alone,

It has been working until now, and it appears the reason it broke
recently is solely due to differences in file naming rules between LInux
and Windows. Until using ReAR we have never needed to use rsync with
directories or files that have valid names in one system and invalid in
the other.

We are exploring some different options. If I find something that works,
I will update and close.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/in/15368?v=4" width="50">[github-actions](https://github.com/apps/github-actions) commented at [2023-09-26 02:03](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3026#issuecomment-1734716300):

Stale issue message

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
