# [\#3227 Issue](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227) `closed`: What comes after SYSLINUX? Support modern PXE booting via iPXE

**Labels**: `enhancement`, `discuss / RFC`, `no-issue-activity`

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) opened issue at [2024-05-21 08:26](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227):

### Discussed in <https://github.com/rear/rear/discussions/3099>

<div type='discussions-op-text'>

<sup>Originally posted by **@robertdahlem** December 4, 2023</sup>  
Hi,

Syslinux seems to be pretty much abandoned: last official binary from
Oct 2014, last testing binary from Mar 2016, last commit Feb 2019.

Rear supports OUTPUT=PXE, which I like that very much because it allows
me to prepare a complete backup environment und to use it by simply
booting the system from the network.

But OUTPUT=PXE heavily depends on Syslinux and seems to have no future,
especially with all the UEFI stuff coming up.

What is the preferred way to replace OUTPUT=PXE to produce a network
bootable backup environment? Is there any replacement yet?

I read nice things about [iPXE](https://ipxe.org) (hint, hint :-).</div>

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) commented at [2024-05-21 08:32](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227#issuecomment-2122068816):

@robertdahlem the `OUTPUT=PXE` mode actually only creates a pxelinux
configuration. You can also use `OUTPUT=RAMDISK` to get the same kernel
and initrd without that to use in your own PXE boot environment.

I agree with you that pxelinux is dated and that ReaR could benefit from
better support for modern PXE booting, but - to be honest - this is
something that will have to be developed by people who make use of it,
either as a contribution or as [professional
support](https://relax-and-recover.org/support/#professional-support)
engagement. That would be the only way to ensure that it actually works,
because there would be sufficient testing done.

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101384?v=4" width="50">[schlomo](https://github.com/schlomo) commented at [2024-06-19 07:26](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227#issuecomment-2177945610):

Another thought would be to consolidate all ReaR booting into using only
[grub2](https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/index.html). It seems to
support all architectures where we currently use SYSLINUX and even more
(e.g. arm). I also see support for multi-arch network boot, as
illustrated in <https://linuxguideandhints.com/el/pxeboot/#dhcp-isc>

    ## EFI Client Catch
            class "pxeclients" {
                    match if substring (option vendor-class-identifier, 0, 9) = "PXEClient";
                    if option pxe-system-type = 00:07 {
                            filename "boot/grub2/x86_64-efi/core.efi";
                    } else if option pxe-system-type = 00:08 {
                            filename "boot/grub2/x86_64-efi/core.efi";
                    } else if option pxe-system-type = 00:09 {
                            filename "boot/grub2/x86_64-efi/core.efi";
                    } else if option pxe-system-type = 00:0a {
                            filename "boot/grub2/armv7a-efi/core.efi";
                    } else if option pxe-system-type = 00:0b {
                            filename "boot/grub2/aarch64-efi/core.efi";
                    } else {
                            filename "boot/grub2/i386-pc/core.0";
                    }
            }

I'd hope that consolidating on a single tool (e.g. grub2) will
significantly simplify our code base and make it trivial to support the
same features across all boot methods.

I suppose that for s390 and other "special" architectures this
discussion is irrelevant as they have their own standard way of booting.

@pcahyna what do you think about that thought? How does that fit in with
Red Hat / Fedora booting strategy?

@jsmeix how does that fit in with SUSE booting strategy?

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/in/15368?v=4" width="50">[github-actions](https://github.com/apps/github-actions) commented at [2025-02-15 02:33](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227#issuecomment-2660643916):

Stale issue message

#### <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/in/15368?v=4" width="50">[github-actions](https://github.com/apps/github-actions) commented at [2025-04-19 02:43](https://github.com/rear/rear/issues/3227#issuecomment-2816480554):

Stale issue message

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[Export of Github issue for
[rear/rear](https://github.com/rear/rear).\]
